"Wiking Breathe is a very, very special meditation. Definitely it is a very special meditation.
It is one of the great techniques that will bring the mind more stabilizing, more stiff,
concentrated.
So therefore, the Wiking Breathe is a very special meditation. Definitely we should do that for a
while.
Even for one period of the meditation, for example, let's say you are doing meditation for one hour
, practice for one hour,
I would say really those I do for maybe 10 minutes, 15 minutes, like that.
After that, when the mind is a little more stabilized, then maybe you don't have to follow the
breathing.
Because the purpose of that is to stabilize the mind more concentrated, more systematic, putting
them.
So once your mind is a little more stabilized, then you can relax.
Because when you're Wiking Breathe, there is still some effort.
So effort, there is some degree of concentration that involves effort.
So then, I want to use this level stabilized mind, then maybe, then relax the mind.
We don't have any effort to relax in the present state, present state, and the past, future,
present.
Even in the Dokki teachings, it goes beyond the present state.
So this three times is the consultant state.
And this going beyond the present state is the fault state, fault time state, which is the natural
state of our self, everything.
So relaxing that natural state.
To do this, then we don't make any effort.
Just be in the present state, keep normal breathing, and then relax.
And that status, and the thought will come.
Thought will come, that means don't try to prevent it or stop it from thought.
For that reason, let it come.
And also, when thought comes, we're not going to analyze the thought and hold that.
That we analyze, we're not letting go.
So we're not going to analyze, let it go.
As wind blows in the sky, let it come, wind in the space, let it be in the space, let it go in the
space,
and the wind never affected sky quality at all.
And similarly, if we keep that system, in the teachings said, it will never affect our nature of
the mind,
or nature is looking, just only displays.
Mind comes, mind stays, mind goes.
And the nature of the mind, that coming towards consumption, is also empty.
There's no substantial solid existence.
And so when you look to the past memories, there's nothing.
When you think of the future, there's nothing.
When you talk to the spirit of thought, if you think of this, there's nothing that we can hold.
It's all empty, it's displayed.
So to kind of behold and to bring that realization, then in the Dzogji teachings said,
let it come, let it be, let it go.
Relax in that, but don't distract it.
This is the one to teach it.
If we distract it from that, then it becomes the conceptions.
So therefore, keep being aware, aware of that, with that aware, awareness, aware,
and then let it come, let it be, let it go.
Then that is the according, I mean not according, in the Dzogji teaching,
or in Mahayana teaching to you, Mahadeva teaching.
That is the principle practice.
That is then, when you be in that status, then did that become as natural?
What is it?
There is an insect behind the blind.
Okay, I can't really remind the porcupine.
Porcupine is either here or somewhere.
So are you able to remain, I mean it's like that.
Then really apply this, as we say, inconceivable, inexpressible,
unborn, unceasing by nature, the sky.
That is the essence, that is the heart of the Buddha and the heart of the political.
Thank you.